docs: update NFS docs including latest CSI work (#10014)
rook/rook: Documentation/ceph-nfs-crd.md

via shared RADOS objects. The servers will be configured for NFSv4.1+ access only, as serving
earlier protocols can inhibit responsiveness after a server restart.

> **WARNING**: This document assumes you are using v16.2.7 or higher.
> If you are using or wish to use an earlier than v16.2.7, see the documented
> [known issue](#ceph-v1620-through-v1626) below.

## Samples

```yaml
apiVersion: ceph.rook.io/v1
kind: CephNFS
metadata:
  name: my-nfs
  namespace: rook-ceph # namespace:cluster
spec:
  # Settings for the NFS server
  server:
    active: 1

    placement:
      nodeAffinity:
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
            - key: role
              operator: In
              values:
              - nfs-node
      topologySpreadConstraints:
      tolerations:
      - key: nfs-node
        operator: Exists
      podAffinity:
      podAntiAffinity:

>     annotations:

Reviewer: Some of these standard properties like annotations, labels, and resources seem better left for the example nfs.yaml, but they could be removed from this doc for simplicity.

Author: Since this documents the CRD, I think it is most helpful to have all possible configs listed here. I have found it confusing to understand where things go in CRDs when it is just the bullet point documentation. Even if they aren't doing anything in this example, I think readers can at least see more clearly that the option exists and where it goes hierarchically at a glance.

* `annotations`: Kubernetes annotations to apply to NFS server Pod(s)
* `labels`: Kubernetes labels to apply to NFS server Pod(s)
* `resources`: Kubernetes resource requests and limits to set on NFS server Pod(s)
* `priorityClassName`: Set priority class name for the NFS server Pod(s)
* `logLevel`: The log level that NFS-Ganesha servers should output.</br>
  Default value: NIV_INFO</br>
  Supported values: NIV_NULL | NIV_FATAL | NIV_MAJ | NIV_CRIT | NIV_WARN | NIV_EVENT | NIV_INFO | NIV_DEBUG | NIV_MID_DEBUG | NIV_FULL_DEBUG | NB_LOG_LEVEL

## Creating Exports
When a CephNFS is first created, all NFS daemons within the CephNFS cluster will share a
configuration with no exports defined.

### Using the Ceph Dashboard
Exports can be created via the
[Ceph dashboard](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/mgr/dashboard/#nfs-ganesha-management) for Ceph v16
as well. To enable and use the Ceph dashboard in Rook, see [here](ceph-dashboard.md).

### Using the Ceph CLI
The Ceph CLI can be used from the Rook toolbox pod to create and manage NFS exports. To do so, first
ensure the necessary Ceph mgr modules are enabled, if necessary, and that the Ceph orchestrator
backend is set to Rook.

> #### **Enable the Ceph orchestrator if necessary**

Reviewer: Does this header only apply to this paragraph through line 110? It has the appearance of also applying all the way to line 172.

Author: It doesn't. I wasn't sure how to easily link back to just this part from later in the doc. I'll play with it a bit more.

## Creating Exports
When a CephNFS is first created, all NFS daemons within the CephNFS cluster will share a
configuration with no exports defined.

### Using the Ceph Dashboard
Exports can be created via the
[Ceph dashboard](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/mgr/dashboard/#nfs-ganesha-management) for Ceph v16
as well. To enable and use the Ceph dashboard in Rook, see [here](ceph-dashboard.md).

### Using the Ceph CLI
The Ceph CLI can be used from the Rook toolbox pod to create and manage NFS exports. To do so, first
ensure the necessary Ceph mgr modules are enabled, if necessary, and that the Ceph orchestrator
backend is set to Rook.

> #### **Enable the Ceph orchestrator if necessary**
> This is required for Ceph v16.2.7 and below. It is optional for Ceph v16.2.8 and above; however, it
> will break export creation for Ceph v17.2.0 due to a Ceph regression and must remain disabled.
> The documented [known issue](#ceph-v1720) may help clarify.
> ```console
> ceph mgr module enable rook
> ceph mgr module enable nfs
> ceph orch set backend rook
> ```

> 

Author: @travisn how does this read as a callout?

Reviewer: What about bullets for the versioning? It may help make the v17.2.0 issue more obvious.
- Required for Ceph v16.2.7 and below. 
- Optional for Ceph v16.2.8 and above
- **Not applicable** to Ceph v17.2.0 due to a regression in export creation

Author: Updated.

ensure the necessary Ceph mgr modules are enabled and that the Ceph orchestrator backend is set to
Rook.
```console

> # this is unnecessary for Ceph v16.2.8+, and it will break export creation for Ceph v17.2.0

Author: > Breaking v17.2.0 is just temporary until that fix is merged, right?

No. v17.2.0 is likely to be broken. The recent backports will allow a workaround in disabling the orchestrator, but the issue still exists.

mount -t nfs4 -o proto=tcp <nfs-service-ip>:/ <mount-location>
```

## Exposing the NFS server outside of the Kubernetes cluster

> It is straightforward to use a LoadBalancer Service to expose an NFS server (and its exports)

Reviewer: Operations aren't always straightforward for people. :) 
```suggestion
Use a LoadBalancer Service to expose an NFS server (and its exports)
```

Of note, it is possible to pre-populate the NFS configuration and export objects prior to starting
NFS servers.

> ## Known issues

Reviewer: How about moving Known Issues before the Advanced configuration?

### server.active count greater than 1
* Active-active scale out does not work well with the NFS protocol. If one NFS server in a cluster
  is offline, other servers may block client requests until the offline server returns, which may
  not always happen due to the Kubernetes scheduler.
  * Workaround: It is safest to run only a single NFS server, but we do not limit this if it
    benefits your use case.

### Ceph v16.2.0 through v16.2.6

> * Ceph NFS management is buggy in Ceph Pacific v16.2.0 through v16.2.6.

Reviewer: How about we just say we don't support these versions? But we can link to the v1.8 docs if they want to try.
```suggestion
* Ceph NFS management is not supported in Ceph Pacific v16.2.0 through v16.2.6.
```

Author: Removed this known issue and added the info to the top-of-doc warning

>   * Workaround: We recommend that you use Ceph v16.2.7+ with NFS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Of note, it is possible to pre-populate the NFS configuration and export objects prior to starting
NFS servers.

## Known issues

> * Ceph NFS management is buggy in Ceph Pacific v16.2.0 through v16.2.6.

Author: It seems good to narrow down this doc. I don't like how big it has to be just due to all the Ceph differences.

  * Workaround: We recommend that you use Ceph v16.2.7+ with NFS.

* Ceph NFS management was broken with the Ceph Quincy v17.2.0 release.
  * Workaround: Leave Ceph's Rook orchestrator mgr module disabled. If you have enabled it, you must
    disable it using the snippet below from the toolbox.
    ```console
    ceph orch set backend ""
    ceph mgr module disable rook
    ```

> * Active-active scale out does not work well with the NFS protocol. If one NFS server in a cluster

Author: I did a lot more linking to the known issues section in v2 of the doc

  is offline, other servers may block client requests until the offline server returns, which may
  not always happen due to the Kubernetes scheduler.
  * Workaround: It is safest to run only a single NFS server.

## Ceph CSI NFS provisioner and NFS CSI driver
> **EXPERIMENTAL**: this feature is experimental, and we do not guarantee upgrade support to future versions

In version 1.9.1, Rook is able to deploy the experimental NFS Ceph CSI driver. This requires Ceph
CSI version 3.6.0 or above. We recommend Ceph v16.2.7 or above. Ceph CSI's
[support matrix](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi#support-matrix) has more detailed information.

For this section, we will refer to Rook's deployment examples in the
[deploy/examples](https://github.com/rook/rook/tree/{{ branchName }}/deploy/examples) directory.

Rook will only deploy the Ceph CSI NFS provisioner and driver components when the
`ROOK_CSI_ENABLE_NFS` config is set to `"true"` in the `rook-ceph-operator-config` configmap. Change
the value in your manifest, or patch the resource as below.
```sh

> kubectl --namespace rook-ceph patch configmap rook-ceph-operator-config --type merge --patch '{"data":{"ROOK_CSI_ENABLE_NFS": "true"}}'

Author: I'm pretty sure it just updates the one key (with --type=merge), but I still want to double check.

as the underlying storage for the exports, and you must create a CephNFS to run an NFS server that
will expose the exports.

From the examples, `filesystem.yaml` creates a CephFilesystem called `myfs`, and `nfs.yaml` creates
an NFS server called `my-nfs`.

You do not need to enable Ceph's Rook orchestrator mgr module if you are using Ceph v16.2.8 or
higher. For Ceph v17.2.0, the orchestrator module must remain disabled. If it is enabled, you can
disable it using the snippet below from the toolbox.
```console
ceph orch set backend ""
ceph mgr module disable rook
```

You must also create a storage class. Ceph CSI is designed to support any arbitrary Ceph cluster,
but we are focused here only on Ceph clusters deployed by Rook. Let's take a look at a portion of
the example storage class found at `deploy/examples/csi/nfs/storageclass.yaml` and break down how
the values are determined.

```yaml
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: rook-nfs
provisioner: rook-ceph.nfs.csi.ceph.com # [1]
parameters:
  nfsCluster: my-nfs # [2]
  server: rook-ceph-nfs-my-nfs-a # [3]
  clusterID: rook-ceph # [4]
  fsName: myfs # [5]
  pool: myfs-replicated # [6]

>   # [7] (entire csi.storage.k8s.io/* section immediately below)

Reviewer: Could these settings be omitted as well? They seem pretty standard, nothing special for nfs, right?

Author: I think it's worth mentioning that they share the same info from CephFS.

  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: rook-csi-cephfs-provisioner
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: rook-ceph
  csi.storage.k8s.io/controller-expand-secret-name: rook-csi-cephfs-provisioner
  csi.storage.k8s.io/controller-expand-secret-namespace: rook-ceph
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: rook-csi-cephfs-node
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: rook-ceph

# ... some fields omitted ...
```

> 1. `provisioner`: **rook-ceph**.nfs.csi.ceph.com because **rook-ceph** is the namespace where the

Reviewer: nit: The example values are already seen above, seems like no need to repeat them in this section describing the settings. But it's just a style suggestion, take it or leave it... 
```suggestion
1. `provisioner`: the namespace where the CephCluster is installed
```

Author: I think it's clearer to leave it since "the namespace where the CephCluster is installed" doesn't explain that only a small part of the value is taken from that parameter.
